HANDOFF.md, before:

# Claude Code Optimizer — Project Handoff Document

> **Purpose**: Provide complete context for continuing development of this skill in Claude Code
> **Author**: Anthony Velte & Claude Opus 4.5
> **Last Updated**: January 10, 2026 (Session 5)
> **Session**: This document captures context from 5 Claude.ai sessions that were interrupted by session limits

---

## Project Owner

**Anthony Velte** — Information security consultant with 20 years of experience, specializing in AI automation, enterprise systems, compliance, governance, and risk management. Currently positioning as an entrepreneur leveraging AI-powered capabilities. This skill is one of approximately 20+ being developed to use and to share with others. 

---

## Project Vision

### What We're Building
A Claude Code skill that audits and optimizes Claude Code installations to current best practices. The skill should:

1. **Audit** existing Claude Code setups (settings, hooks, permissions, workflows)
2. **Identify** issues, misconfigurations, and optimization opportunities
3. **Recommend** specific, actionable fixes
4. **Guide** users to best practices

### Why It Matters
- Claude Code is evolving rapidly (1,096 commits in 2.1.0 alone)
- Configuration options are scattered across multiple files and locations
- Best practices aren't always obvious
- Users need a way to verify their setup is current and optimal

### Target Users
- Claude Code users who want to optimize their setup
- Teams onboarding new developers to Claude Code
- Users troubleshooting configuration issues
- Power users wanting to audit their workflow components

---

## Development History

### 
- Initial concept discussion
- Built v1 of the skill
- Built v2 with improved architecture (subagents)
- Discussed QA and testing approaches
- Decided to create comprehensive QA process
- Researched current Claude Code docs extensively
- Built final package with corrected versions
- Created this handoff document
- Applied fixes to SKILL.md, references/hooks-guide.md, MANIFEST.md
- Updated this handoff document
- User uploaded claude-code-optimizer-v1_1_0_2.zip with polished README.md
- Updated GitHub URLs from placeholder `yourusername` to `vbonk`
- Verified Claude Code latest version (npm registry)

---

## Architecture Decisions

### Why Subagents Instead of Monolithic Skill
1. **Separation of concerns**: Each auditor focuses on one domain
2. **Parallel execution**: Multiple audits can run simultaneously
3. **Maintainability**: Update one auditor without touching others
4. **Testability**: Each auditor can be tested independently
5. **Context efficiency**: Only load relevant context for each audit type

### Why Progressive Disclosure
Following official skill-creator guidance:
- SKILL.md stays lean (< 500 lines)
- Detailed information in `references/` directory
- Loaded only when Claude determines it's needed
- Reduces context window bloat

### README.md
A comprehensive README.md was generated with:
- Feature overview and badges
- Installation instructions (quick and manual)
- Usage examples with expected output
- Architecture diagram
- Documentation links
- Validation status (34/34 checks)
- Contributing guidelines

This follows the pattern of other Claude Code skills that are distributed as GitHub repos, where README.md serves as the user-facing documentation while SKILL.md is for Claude to read.

---

## Current State (as of January 10, 2026)

### What's Complete
- [x] SKILL.md with correct version requirements (2.1.0+)
- [x] 5 specialized auditor agents
- [x] 4 reference documents
- [x] Installation script
- [x] QA process document
- [x] README.md with comprehensive user documentation
- [x] LICENSE (MIT)
- [x] .gitignore
- [x] This handoff document
- [x] GitHub URLs set to vbonk/claude-code-optimizer

### What's NOT Complete
- [ ] Live testing in actual Claude Code environment
- [ ] Execution of QA process against the skill files
- [ ] Verification that all agents invoke correctly
- [ ] Testing hook patterns actually work
- [ ] User feedback incorporation
- [ ] Edge case handling

### Known Limitations
1. **Not tested in production** — This can be done in Claude Code now that the repo has been created, configured, and the docs asnd code pushed.
2. **QA process defined but not executed** — Need to run verification matrix
3. **No real user feedback** — Theoretical design, not battle-tested
4. **Agents may need tuning** — Prompts may need adjustment based on actual behavior

---

## Version Information (Verified January 10, 2026)

| Item | Value | Source |
|------|-------|--------|
| Latest Claude Code | 2.1.3 | npm registry |
| Major release | 2.1.0 (Jan 7, 2026) | GitHub, VentureBeat |
| Our minimum version | 2.1.0 | Required for skills hot-reload |
| Skills docs URL | code.claude.com/docs/en/skills | Official |
| Hooks docs URL | code.claude.com/docs/en/hooks | Official |
| Hook events (12 total) | PreToolUse, PostToolUse, PostToolUseFailure, PermissionRequest, Notification, UserPromptSubmit, SessionStart, SessionEnd, Stop, SubagentStart, SubagentStop, PreCompact | SDK Reference |

**Note**: 2.1.3 changelog details need verification in live Claude Code environment before updating documentation.

---

## Files in This Package

```
claude-code-optimizer/
├── SKILL.md                    # Main skill entry point
├── MANIFEST.md                 # Human-readable installation guide
├── HANDOFF.md                  # THIS DOCUMENT - project context
├── QA-PROCESS.md              # Systematic verification framework
├── README.md                   # GitHub user-facing documentation
├── LICENSE                     # MIT License
├── .gitignore                  # Git ignore patterns
├── references/
│   ├── config-guide.md         # Configuration audit details
│   ├── hooks-guide.md          # Hooks patterns and validation
│   ├── permissions-guide.md    # Permission strategies
│   └── troubleshooting.md      # Common issues and fixes
├── agents/
│   ├── audit-orchestrator.md   # Coordinates full audits
│   ├── config-auditor.md       # Settings.json, CLAUDE.md specialist
│   ├── hooks-auditor.md        # Hook configuration specialist
│   ├── permissions-auditor.md  # Permission rules specialist
│   └── workflow-auditor.md     # Commands/agents/skills specialist
└── scripts/
    └── install.sh              # Automated installation
```

---

## Immediate Next Steps for Claude Code

### 1. Install and Verify
```bash
# Install the skill
./scripts/install.sh

# Verify installation
claude --debug
# Look for: "Found skill: claude-code-optimizer"
```

### 2. Execute QA Process
Open `QA-PROCESS.md` and systematically:
1. Extract all claims from each file (Phase 2)
2. Verify each claim against authoritative sources (Phase 4)
3. Document findings in verification log
4. Fix any issues found
5. Re-verify after fixes

### 3. Live Testing
Test each component:
```
# Test skill triggers
> "Audit my Claude Code setup"
> "Check my hooks configuration"
> "Optimize my Claude Code"

# Test individual agents
> "Run config-auditor on my setup"
> "Check my permissions with permissions-auditor"
```

### 4. Iterate Based on Findings
- If agents don't invoke correctly, adjust descriptions
- If audits miss issues, enhance validation logic
- If output is unclear, improve report formatting

---

## Design Principles to Maintain

1. **Currency over convenience** — Always verify against latest docs before claiming something is correct
2. **Lean SKILL.md** — Keep under 500 lines, use references/ for details
3. **Actionable output** — Every finding should include a specific fix
4. **Progressive disclosure** — Load context only when needed
5. **Security-conscious** — Flag risky patterns, never suggest unsafe configurations

---

## Questions This Document Should Answer

For any future Claude Code session:

**Q: What is this project?**
A: A Claude Code skill that audits and optimizes Claude Code installations.

**Q: Who is it for?**
A: Anthony Velte is the project owner; target users are Claude Code users wanting to verify/optimize their setup.

**Q: What version of Claude Code does it target?**
A: 2.1.0 or later (current latest: 2.1.3 as of Jan 10, 2026).

**Q: Why are there so many files?**
A: Subagent architecture for modularity; progressive disclosure for context efficiency.

**Q: What still needs to be done?**
A: Live testing, QA execution, user feedback incorporation.

**Q: Where are the authoritative docs?**
A: code.claude.com/docs/en/ — specifically /skills, /hooks, /sub-agents, /plugins

**Q: What was the main problem we encountered?**
A: Claude code continues to add news features and capabilities, it's become a challenge for claude code users to "keep up" as these new features and capabilities can take a fair amount of time to set up correctly and to integrate them in to the users workflow(s). 

---

## Contact and Attribution

**Designed by**: Anthony Velte & Claude Opus 4.5
**Project Type**: Open development, part of Anthony's digital solutions portfolio
**License**: MIT

---

*This handoff document should be read by any Claude Code session continuing work on this project. It provides the context that would otherwise be lost between sessions.*

Commit message:

Revise author and session information in HANDOFF.md
Updated author details and session context in HANDOFF.md

HANDOFF.md, after:

# Claude Code Optimizer — Project Handoff Document

> **Purpose**: Provide complete context for continuing development of this skill in Claude Code
> **Author**: Anthony Velte & Claude Opus 4.5
> **Last Updated**: January 10, 2026 (Session 5)
> **Session**: This document captures context from 5 Claude.ai sessions

---

## Project Owner

**Anthony Velte aka vbonk** — Information Systems Network & Security Architect and Author with 20+ years of experience evolving into AI automation, software development, solutions architecure, and infosec compliance, governance, and risk management. Currently positioning as an entrepreneur leveraging AI-powered capabilities to create a living revenue stream. This skill is one of approximately 20+ being developed to use and to share with others. 

---

## Project Vision

### What We're Building
A Claude Code skill that audits and optimizes Claude Code installations to current best practices. The skill should:

1. **Audit** existing Claude Code setups (settings, hooks, permissions, workflows)
2. **Identify** issues, misconfigurations, and optimization opportunities
3. **Recommend** specific, actionable fixes
4. **Guide** users to best practices

### Why It Matters
- Claude Code is evolving rapidly (1,096 commits in 2.1.0 alone)
- Configuration options are scattered across multiple files and locations
- Best practices aren't always obvious
- Users need a way to verify their setup is current and optimal

### Target Users
- Claude Code users who want to optimize their setup
- Teams onboarding new developers to Claude Code
- Users troubleshooting configuration issues
- Power users wanting to audit their workflow components

---

## Development History

### 
- Initial concept discussion
- Built v1 of the skill
- Built v2 with improved architecture (subagents)
- Discussed QA and testing approaches
- Decided to create comprehensive QA process
- Researched current Claude Code docs extensively
- Built final package with corrected versions
- Created this handoff document
- Applied fixes to SKILL.md, references/hooks-guide.md, MANIFEST.md
- Updated this handoff document
- User uploaded claude-code-optimizer-v1_1_0_2.zip with polished README.md
- Updated GitHub URLs from placeholder `yourusername` to `vbonk`
- Verified Claude Code latest version (npm registry)

---

## Architecture Decisions

### Why Subagents Instead of Monolithic Skill
1. **Separation of concerns**: Each auditor focuses on one domain
2. **Parallel execution**: Multiple audits can run simultaneously
3. **Maintainability**: Update one auditor without touching others
4. **Testability**: Each auditor can be tested independently
5. **Context efficiency**: Only load relevant context for each audit type

### Why Progressive Disclosure
Following official skill-creator guidance:
- SKILL.md stays lean (< 500 lines)
- Detailed information in `references/` directory
- Loaded only when Claude determines it's needed
- Reduces context window bloat

### README.md
A comprehensive README.md was generated with:
- Feature overview and badges
- Installation instructions (quick and manual)
- Usage examples with expected output
- Architecture diagram
- Documentation links
- Validation status (34/34 checks)
- Contributing guidelines

This follows the pattern of other Claude Code skills that are distributed as GitHub repos, where README.md serves as the user-facing documentation while SKILL.md is for Claude to read.

---

## Current State (as of January 10, 2026)

### What's Complete
- [x] SKILL.md with correct version requirements (2.1.0+)
- [x] 5 specialized auditor agents
- [x] 4 reference documents
- [x] Installation script
- [x] QA process document
- [x] README.md with comprehensive user documentation
- [x] LICENSE (MIT)
- [x] .gitignore
- [x] This handoff document
- [x] GitHub URLs set to vbonk/claude-code-optimizer

### What's NOT Complete
- [ ] Live testing in actual Claude Code environment
- [ ] Execution of QA process against the skill files
- [ ] Verification that all agents invoke correctly
- [ ] Testing hook patterns actually work
- [ ] User feedback incorporation
- [ ] Edge case handling

### Known Limitations
1. **Not tested in production** — This can be done in Claude Code now that the repo has been created, configured, and the docs asnd code pushed.
2. **QA process defined but not executed** — Need to run verification matrix
3. **No real user feedback** — Theoretical design, not battle-tested
4. **Agents may need tuning** — Prompts may need adjustment based on actual behavior

---

## Version Information (Verified January 10, 2026)

| Item | Value | Source |
|------|-------|--------|
| Latest Claude Code | 2.1.3 | npm registry |
| Major release | 2.1.0 (Jan 7, 2026) | GitHub, VentureBeat |
| Our minimum version | 2.1.0 | Required for skills hot-reload |
| Skills docs URL | code.claude.com/docs/en/skills | Official |
| Hooks docs URL | code.claude.com/docs/en/hooks | Official |
| Hook events (12 total) | PreToolUse, PostToolUse, PostToolUseFailure, PermissionRequest, Notification, UserPromptSubmit, SessionStart, SessionEnd, Stop, SubagentStart, SubagentStop, PreCompact | SDK Reference |

**Note**: 2.1.3 changelog details need verification in live Claude Code environment before updating documentation.

---

## Files in This Package

```
claude-code-optimizer/
├── SKILL.md                    # Main skill entry point
├── MANIFEST.md                 # Human-readable installation guide
├── HANDOFF.md                  # THIS DOCUMENT - project context
├── QA-PROCESS.md              # Systematic verification framework
├── README.md                   # GitHub user-facing documentation
├── LICENSE                     # MIT License
├── .gitignore                  # Git ignore patterns
├── references/
│   ├── config-guide.md         # Configuration audit details
│   ├── hooks-guide.md          # Hooks patterns and validation
│   ├── permissions-guide.md    # Permission strategies
│   └── troubleshooting.md      # Common issues and fixes
├── agents/
│   ├── audit-orchestrator.md   # Coordinates full audits
│   ├── config-auditor.md       # Settings.json, CLAUDE.md specialist
│   ├── hooks-auditor.md        # Hook configuration specialist
│   ├── permissions-auditor.md  # Permission rules specialist
│   └── workflow-auditor.md     # Commands/agents/skills specialist
└── scripts/
    └── install.sh              # Automated installation
```

---

## Immediate Next Steps for Claude Code

### 1. Install and Verify
```bash
# Install the skill
./scripts/install.sh

# Verify installation
claude --debug
# Look for: "Found skill: claude-code-optimizer"
```

### 2. Execute QA Process
Open `QA-PROCESS.md` and systematically:
1. Extract all claims from each file (Phase 2)
2. Verify each claim against authoritative sources (Phase 4)
3. Document findings in verification log
4. Fix any issues found
5. Re-verify after fixes

### 3. Live Testing
Test each component:
```
# Test skill triggers
> "Audit my Claude Code setup"
> "Check my hooks configuration"
> "Optimize my Claude Code"

# Test individual agents
> "Run config-auditor on my setup"
> "Check my permissions with permissions-auditor"
```

### 4. Iterate Based on Findings
- If agents don't invoke correctly, adjust descriptions
- If audits miss issues, enhance validation logic
- If output is unclear, improve report formatting

---

## Design Principles to Maintain

1. **Currency over convenience** — Always verify against latest docs before claiming something is correct
2. **Lean SKILL.md** — Keep under 500 lines, use references/ for details
3. **Actionable output** — Every finding should include a specific fix
4. **Progressive disclosure** — Load context only when needed
5. **Security-conscious** — Flag risky patterns, never suggest unsafe configurations

---

## Questions This Document Should Answer

For any future Claude Code session:

**Q: What is this project?**
A: A Claude Code skill that audits and optimizes Claude Code installations.

**Q: Who is it for?**
A: Anthony Velte is the project owner; target users are Claude Code users wanting to verify/optimize their setup.

**Q: What version of Claude Code does it target?**
A: 2.1.0 or later (current latest: 2.1.3 as of Jan 10, 2026).

**Q: Why are there so many files?**
A: Subagent architecture for modularity; progressive disclosure for context efficiency.

**Q: What still needs to be done?**
A: Live testing, QA execution, user feedback incorporation.

**Q: Where are the authoritative docs?**
A: code.claude.com/docs/en/ — specifically /skills, /hooks, /sub-agents, /plugins

**Q: What was the main problem we encountered?**
A: Claude code continues to add news features and capabilities, it's become a challenge for claude code users to "keep up" as these new features and capabilities can take a fair amount of time to set up correctly and to integrate them in to the users workflow(s). 

---

## Contact and Attribution

**Designed by**: Anthony Velte & Claude Opus 4.5
**Project Type**: Open development, part of Anthony's digital solutions portfolio
**License**: MIT

---

*This handoff document should be read by any Claude Code session continuing work on this project. It provides the context that would otherwise be lost between sessions.*
