README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# Claude Code Optimizer

**Audit and optimize your Claude Code installation to current best practices**

[![Claude Code 2.1.3+](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude%20Code-2.1.3%2B-blue?style=flat-square&logo=anthropic)](https://code.claude.com)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.2.0-green?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/vbonk/claude-code-optimizer/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-purple?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
[![Validation](https://img.shields.io/badge/checks-34%2F34%20passed-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](#validation)

[What Is This?](#what-is-this) • [Features](#features) • [Installation](#installation) • [Usage](#usage) • [Architecture](#architecture)

</div>

---

## What Is This?

**Claude Code** is Anthropic's AI-powered coding assistant that runs in your terminal. It can read your codebase, write and edit files, run commands, and help you build software through natural conversation.

**Claude Code Optimizer** is a *skill* — a plugin that extends Claude Code's capabilities. When installed, it gives Claude the ability to audit your Claude Code setup, find misconfigurations, identify security issues, and recommend optimizations.

Think of it as a health check for your Claude Code installation:

```
You: "Audit my Claude Code setup"

Claude: Analyzing your configuration...

## Audit Report

| Severity | Area | Issue | Fix |
|----------|------|-------|-----|
| 🔴 High | Hooks | Invalid event `postToolUse` | Use `PostToolUse` (case-sensitive) |
| 🟡 Medium | Permissions | Overly broad `Bash(*)` | Scope to specific commands |
| 🟢 Info | MCP | Unused server configured | Remove or configure |

Recommendations:
1. Fix hook event name — hooks won't fire with wrong casing
2. Tighten permissions to reduce security surface
```

**Who is this for?**
- Developers who want to verify their Claude Code setup is optimal
- Teams standardizing Claude Code configurations
- Power users exploring advanced features (hooks, MCP, custom agents)
- Anyone troubleshooting why something isn't working

---

## Why This Exists

Claude Code is evolving rapidly—2.1.0 alone shipped with 1,096 commits. Configuration options are scattered across multiple files, best practices aren't always obvious, and it's easy to miss features that could dramatically improve your workflow.

**Claude Code Optimizer** is a skill that audits your setup, identifies issues, and guides you to an optimized configuration.

## Features

- **🔍 Comprehensive Auditing** — Analyzes settings, hooks, permissions, MCP servers, commands, agents, and skills
- **🎯 Six Specialized Agents** — Focused auditors for config, hooks, permissions, MCP, workflows, plus orchestrator
- **🔒 Security Analysis** — Detects hardcoded secrets, dangerous patterns, data exfiltration risks
- **📊 Context Optimization** — Identifies bloated configs causing context exhaustion
- **✅ Pattern Validation** — Catches permission patterns that won't match as expected
- **📋 Actionable Reports** — Every finding includes severity, impact, and specific fix instructions
- **📚 Built-in References** — Five detailed guides including security audit procedures
- **⚡ Current** — Targets Claude Code 2.1.3+ with all 12 hook events and latest settings schema

## Installation

### Quick Install (Recommended)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/vbonk/claude-code-optimizer.git
cd claude-code-optimizer

# Run the installer
./scripts/install.sh
```

### Manual Install

```bash
# Install skill
mkdir -p ~/.claude/skills/claude-code-optimizer
cp -r SKILL.md references ~/.claude/skills/claude-code-optimizer/

# Install agents
mkdir -p ~/.claude/agents
cp agents/*.md ~/.claude/agents/
```

### Project-Scoped Install

For project-specific installation (useful for teams):

```bash
./scripts/install.sh --project
```

This installs to `.claude/skills/` and `.claude/agents/` in your current directory.

### Verify Installation

```bash
claude --version  # Should be 2.1.0+
```

Then in Claude Code:
```
What skills are available?
```

You should see `claude-code-optimizer` listed.

## Usage

### Full Audit

Ask Claude Code to audit your setup:

```
Audit my Claude Code setup
```

Or be specific:

```
Run a comprehensive Claude Code audit and show me what needs fixing
```

### Targeted Audits

Run specific audits when you know what you're looking for:

| Request | What It Does |
|---------|--------------|
| `Check my Claude Code configuration` | Audits settings.json and CLAUDE.md files |
| `Audit my hooks` | Validates hook events, matchers, and security |
| `Review my permissions setup` | Analyzes allow/deny rules and pattern validity |
| `Audit my MCP servers` | Checks MCP configs for secrets and security |
| `Check my commands and agents` | Audits workflow components for best practices |
| `Run a security audit` | Comprehensive security review across all areas |

### Example Output

```
## Claude Code Audit Report

**Version**: 2.1.2
**Health**: ✅ Pass

### Findings

| Severity | Area | Issue | Fix |
|----------|------|-------|-----|
| 🔴 High | Hooks | Invalid event name `postToolUse` | Change to `PostToolUse` (case-sensitive) |
| 🟡 Medium | Permissions | Overly broad `Bash(*)` allow rule | Scope to specific commands |
| 🟢 Info | Config | No CLAUDE.md in project root | Consider adding project context |

### Recommendations
1. Fix the hook event name immediately—hooks won't fire with incorrect casing
2. Tighten Bash permissions to reduce security surface
3. Add CLAUDE.md to improve Claude's understanding of your project
```

## Architecture

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Claude Code Optimizer                           │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  SKILL.md                                                             │
│  ├── Trigger detection (audit, optimize, check, improve)             │
│  ├── Quick reference (settings keys, hook events, tool names)        │
│  └── Agent orchestration                                              │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Specialized Agents (6)                                               │
│  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐          │
│  │ config-auditor │  │ hooks-auditor  │  │ permissions-   │          │
│  │                │  │                │  │ auditor        │          │
│  │ • settings.json│  │ • Event names  │  │ • Allow/deny   │          │
│  │ • CLAUDE.md    │  │ • Matchers     │  │ • Patterns     │          │
│  │ • Context size │  │ • Security     │  │ • Unreachable  │          │
│  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘          │
│  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐          │
│  │ mcp-auditor    │  │ workflow-      │  │ audit-         │          │
│  │                │  │ auditor        │  │ orchestrator   │          │
│  │ • MCP servers  │  │ • Commands     │  │ • Coordinates  │          │
│  │ • Secrets      │  │ • Agents       │  │ • Synthesizes  │          │
│  │ • Permissions  │  │ • Skills       │  │ • Prioritizes  │          │
│  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘          │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  References (5 guides, loaded on demand)                              │
│  • config-guide.md • hooks-guide.md • permissions-guide.md           │
│  • security-guide.md • troubleshooting.md                             │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Why Subagents?

1. **Separation of concerns** — Each auditor is an expert in one domain
2. **Parallel execution** — Multiple audits can run simultaneously  
3. **Maintainability** — Update one auditor without touching others
4. **Context efficiency** — Only loads relevant expertise for each audit type
5. **Testability** — Each agent can be validated independently

## Documentation

### Included References

| Guide | Contents |
|-------|----------|
| [`references/config-guide.md`](references/config-guide.md) | Settings.json schema, CLAUDE.md best practices, context optimization |
| [`references/hooks-guide.md`](references/hooks-guide.md) | All 12 hook events, matcher patterns, input/output schemas |
| [`references/permissions-guide.md`](references/permissions-guide.md) | Permission strategies, pattern validation, unreachable rule detection |
| [`references/security-guide.md`](references/security-guide.md) | Security audit procedures, threat model, incident response |
| [`references/troubleshooting.md`](references/troubleshooting.md) | Common issues, diagnostic commands, context optimization |

### Official Claude Code Documentation

- [Skills](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills) — How skills work
- [Hooks Reference](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/hooks) — Complete hook documentation
- [Subagents](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/sub-agents) — Agent architecture
- [Settings](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/settings) — Configuration options

## What Gets Checked

### Configuration (`config-auditor`)
- `~/.claude/settings.json` — User settings
- `.claude/settings.json` — Project settings
- `CLAUDE.md` / `.claude/CLAUDE.md` — Project memory
- `CLAUDE.local.md` — Local overrides
- JSON validity and schema compliance
- Context usage optimization (file sizes, bloat detection)

### Hooks (`hooks-auditor`)
- All 12 event names validated (case-sensitive)
- Matcher patterns (regex validity, tool name accuracy)
- Command security (injection risks, data exfiltration, dangerous patterns)
- Timeout configurations
- `once: true` and `agent_type` options

### Permissions (`permissions-auditor`)
- Allow/deny rule effectiveness
- Pattern validation (catches common mistakes)
- Unreachable rule detection (2.1.3+)
- Conflicting rules and security recommendations

### MCP Servers (`mcp-auditor`)
- Server configurations in settings.json and .mcp.json
- Hardcoded secret detection
- Filesystem scope validation
- Tool permission coverage
- High-risk server identification

### Workflow Components (`workflow-auditor`)
- Custom slash commands (frontmatter, descriptions)
- Subagents (valid schemas, appropriate tools)
- Skills (trigger descriptions, file structure)
- Named sessions and `context: fork` usage

## Validation

This skill has passed comprehensive validation:

```
✅ 38/38 checks passed

Installation
  ✅ Skill directory structure correct
  ✅ Agents installed to correct location
  ✅ Install script executes successfully

Schema Validation
  ✅ SKILL.md frontmatter valid
  ✅ All 6 agents have valid frontmatter
  ✅ All tool names correct (Bash, Read, Write, etc.)
  ✅ All model values valid (inherit)

Documentation
  ✅ All 12 hook events documented
  ✅ All 5 reference guides complete
  ✅ SKILL.md under 500 lines
  ✅ Descriptions under 1024 chars

Version Compatibility
  ✅ Targets Claude Code 2.1.3+
  ✅ Tested with Claude Code 2.1.3
```

## Requirements

- **Claude Code**: 2.1.3 or later
- **Subscription**: Claude Pro, Claude Max, or API access
- **OS**: macOS, Linux, or Windows (WSL)

## File Structure

```
claude-code-optimizer/
├── SKILL.md                 # Main skill (triggers on audit/optimize requests)
├── MANIFEST.md              # Human-readable installation guide
├── HANDOFF.md               # Development context for contributors
├── QA-PROCESS.md            # Validation framework
├── README.md                # This file
├── LICENSE                  # MIT License
├── agents/
│   ├── audit-orchestrator.md    # Coordinates comprehensive audits
│   ├── config-auditor.md        # Configuration specialist
│   ├── hooks-auditor.md         # Hooks specialist
│   ├── mcp-auditor.md           # MCP server specialist
│   ├── permissions-auditor.md   # Permissions specialist
│   └── workflow-auditor.md      # Commands/agents/skills specialist
├── references/
│   ├── config-guide.md          # Configuration deep-dive
│   ├── hooks-guide.md           # Hook patterns and examples
│   ├── permissions-guide.md     # Permission strategies
│   ├── security-guide.md        # Security audit procedures
│   └── troubleshooting.md       # Common issues and solutions
└── scripts/
    └── install.sh               # Installation script
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [HANDOFF.md](HANDOFF.md) for development context and [QA-PROCESS.md](QA-PROCESS.md) for the validation framework.

### Development Workflow

1. Fork the repository
2. Make your changes
3. Run the QA process validation
4. Submit a pull request

### Areas for Contribution

- Additional audit checks
- New reference documentation
- Edge case handling
- Performance optimization
- Bug fixes

## License

MIT License — see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Attribution

<div align="center">

**Designed by Anthony Velte & Claude Opus 4.5**

Built with care to help developers get the most out of Claude Code.

---

*If this skill helped you, consider starring the repo ⭐*

</div>

Commit message:

docs: Add intro text to each README section
Add concise, welcoming intro paragraphs to each major section:
- Why This Exists: Emphasize complexity and untapped potential
- Features: Focus on validation depth, not just existence checks
- Installation: Set expectation (30 seconds, auto-loading)
- Usage: Natural language triggers, no commands to memorize
- Architecture: Explain the agent team metaphor
- Documentation: Reference guides go deeper than audit output
- What Gets Checked: Validates against 2.1.3 spec, not surface-level
- Validation: QA process dogfooding, verified claims
- Requirements: No additional dependencies
- File Structure: Plain Markdown, fully customizable
- Contributing: Low barrier, just Markdown files

All intros maintain consistent tone: helpful, confident, approachable.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# Claude Code Optimizer

**Audit and optimize your Claude Code installation to current best practices**

[![Claude Code 2.1.3+](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude%20Code-2.1.3%2B-blue?style=flat-square&logo=anthropic)](https://code.claude.com)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.2.0-green?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/vbonk/claude-code-optimizer/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-purple?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
[![Validation](https://img.shields.io/badge/checks-34%2F34%20passed-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](#validation)

[What Is This?](#what-is-this) • [Features](#features) • [Installation](#installation) • [Usage](#usage) • [Architecture](#architecture)

</div>

---

## What Is This?

**Claude Code** is Anthropic's AI-powered coding assistant that runs in your terminal. It can read your codebase, write and edit files, run commands, and help you build software through natural conversation.

**Claude Code Optimizer** is a *skill* — a plugin that extends Claude Code's capabilities. When installed, it gives Claude the ability to audit your Claude Code setup, find misconfigurations, identify security issues, and recommend optimizations.

Think of it as a health check for your Claude Code installation:

```
You: "Audit my Claude Code setup"

Claude: Analyzing your configuration...

## Audit Report

| Severity | Area | Issue | Fix |
|----------|------|-------|-----|
| 🔴 High | Hooks | Invalid event `postToolUse` | Use `PostToolUse` (case-sensitive) |
| 🟡 Medium | Permissions | Overly broad `Bash(*)` | Scope to specific commands |
| 🟢 Info | MCP | Unused server configured | Remove or configure |

Recommendations:
1. Fix hook event name — hooks won't fire with wrong casing
2. Tighten permissions to reduce security surface
```

**Who is this for?**
- Developers who want to verify their Claude Code setup is optimal
- Teams standardizing Claude Code configurations
- Power users exploring advanced features (hooks, MCP, custom agents)
- Anyone troubleshooting why something isn't working

---

## Why This Exists

Claude Code is powerful, but it's also complex. With hooks, permissions, MCP servers, custom agents, slash commands, and multiple configuration files, there's a lot that can go wrong — and a lot of potential that goes untapped.

Claude Code is evolving rapidly—2.1.0 alone shipped with 1,096 commits. Configuration options are scattered across multiple files, best practices aren't always obvious, and it's easy to miss features that could dramatically improve your workflow.

**Claude Code Optimizer** is a skill that audits your setup, identifies issues, and guides you to an optimized configuration.

## Features

The optimizer doesn't just check if your files exist — it validates every configuration option, catches subtle mistakes, and explains exactly how to fix them.

- **🔍 Comprehensive Auditing** — Analyzes settings, hooks, permissions, MCP servers, commands, agents, and skills
- **🎯 Six Specialized Agents** — Focused auditors for config, hooks, permissions, MCP, workflows, plus orchestrator
- **🔒 Security Analysis** — Detects hardcoded secrets, dangerous patterns, data exfiltration risks
- **📊 Context Optimization** — Identifies bloated configs causing context exhaustion
- **✅ Pattern Validation** — Catches permission patterns that won't match as expected
- **📋 Actionable Reports** — Every finding includes severity, impact, and specific fix instructions
- **📚 Built-in References** — Five detailed guides including security audit procedures
- **⚡ Current** — Targets Claude Code 2.1.3+ with all 12 hook events and latest settings schema

## Installation

Installation takes about 30 seconds. The skill installs to your Claude Code skills directory, and the specialized agents install alongside it. Once installed, Claude automatically loads the optimizer when you ask for an audit.

### Quick Install (Recommended)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/vbonk/claude-code-optimizer.git
cd claude-code-optimizer

# Run the installer
./scripts/install.sh
```

### Manual Install

```bash
# Install skill
mkdir -p ~/.claude/skills/claude-code-optimizer
cp -r SKILL.md references ~/.claude/skills/claude-code-optimizer/

# Install agents
mkdir -p ~/.claude/agents
cp agents/*.md ~/.claude/agents/
```

### Project-Scoped Install

For project-specific installation (useful for teams):

```bash
./scripts/install.sh --project
```

This installs to `.claude/skills/` and `.claude/agents/` in your current directory.

### Verify Installation

```bash
claude --version  # Should be 2.1.0+
```

Then in Claude Code:
```
What skills are available?
```

You should see `claude-code-optimizer` listed.

## Usage

Just ask Claude naturally. The optimizer triggers on phrases like "audit", "check", "optimize", or "review" when you're talking about your Claude Code setup. You don't need to remember specific commands.

### Full Audit

Ask Claude Code to audit your setup:

```
Audit my Claude Code setup
```

Or be specific:

```
Run a comprehensive Claude Code audit and show me what needs fixing
```

### Targeted Audits

Run specific audits when you know what you're looking for:

| Request | What It Does |
|---------|--------------|
| `Check my Claude Code configuration` | Audits settings.json and CLAUDE.md files |
| `Audit my hooks` | Validates hook events, matchers, and security |
| `Review my permissions setup` | Analyzes allow/deny rules and pattern validity |
| `Audit my MCP servers` | Checks MCP configs for secrets and security |
| `Check my commands and agents` | Audits workflow components for best practices |
| `Run a security audit` | Comprehensive security review across all areas |

### Example Output

```
## Claude Code Audit Report

**Version**: 2.1.2
**Health**: ✅ Pass

### Findings

| Severity | Area | Issue | Fix |
|----------|------|-------|-----|
| 🔴 High | Hooks | Invalid event name `postToolUse` | Change to `PostToolUse` (case-sensitive) |
| 🟡 Medium | Permissions | Overly broad `Bash(*)` allow rule | Scope to specific commands |
| 🟢 Info | Config | No CLAUDE.md in project root | Consider adding project context |

### Recommendations
1. Fix the hook event name immediately—hooks won't fire with incorrect casing
2. Tighten Bash permissions to reduce security surface
3. Add CLAUDE.md to improve Claude's understanding of your project
```

## Architecture

Under the hood, the optimizer uses a team of specialized agents. Each agent is an expert in one area — hooks, permissions, MCP servers, etc. When you request an audit, the orchestrator coordinates them, collects their findings, and synthesizes a unified report.

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Claude Code Optimizer                           │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  SKILL.md                                                             │
│  ├── Trigger detection (audit, optimize, check, improve)             │
│  ├── Quick reference (settings keys, hook events, tool names)        │
│  └── Agent orchestration                                              │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Specialized Agents (6)                                               │
│  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐          │
│  │ config-auditor │  │ hooks-auditor  │  │ permissions-   │          │
│  │                │  │                │  │ auditor        │          │
│  │ • settings.json│  │ • Event names  │  │ • Allow/deny   │          │
│  │ • CLAUDE.md    │  │ • Matchers     │  │ • Patterns     │          │
│  │ • Context size │  │ • Security     │  │ • Unreachable  │          │
│  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘          │
│  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐  ┌────────────────┐          │
│  │ mcp-auditor    │  │ workflow-      │  │ audit-         │          │
│  │                │  │ auditor        │  │ orchestrator   │          │
│  │ • MCP servers  │  │ • Commands     │  │ • Coordinates  │          │
│  │ • Secrets      │  │ • Agents       │  │ • Synthesizes  │          │
│  │ • Permissions  │  │ • Skills       │  │ • Prioritizes  │          │
│  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘  └────────────────┘          │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  References (5 guides, loaded on demand)                              │
│  • config-guide.md • hooks-guide.md • permissions-guide.md           │
│  • security-guide.md • troubleshooting.md                             │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Why Subagents?

1. **Separation of concerns** — Each auditor is an expert in one domain
2. **Parallel execution** — Multiple audits can run simultaneously  
3. **Maintainability** — Update one auditor without touching others
4. **Context efficiency** — Only loads relevant expertise for each audit type
5. **Testability** — Each agent can be validated independently

## Documentation

The optimizer includes detailed reference guides that Claude loads on demand. These go deeper than the audit output — use them when you want to understand the "why" behind a recommendation or learn advanced configuration patterns.

### Included References

| Guide | Contents |
|-------|----------|
| [`references/config-guide.md`](references/config-guide.md) | Settings.json schema, CLAUDE.md best practices, context optimization |
| [`references/hooks-guide.md`](references/hooks-guide.md) | All 12 hook events, matcher patterns, input/output schemas |
| [`references/permissions-guide.md`](references/permissions-guide.md) | Permission strategies, pattern validation, unreachable rule detection |
| [`references/security-guide.md`](references/security-guide.md) | Security audit procedures, threat model, incident response |
| [`references/troubleshooting.md`](references/troubleshooting.md) | Common issues, diagnostic commands, context optimization |

### Official Claude Code Documentation

- [Skills](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills) — How skills work
- [Hooks Reference](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/hooks) — Complete hook documentation
- [Subagents](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/sub-agents) — Agent architecture
- [Settings](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/settings) — Configuration options

## What Gets Checked

Here's exactly what each auditor examines. This isn't just a surface-level scan — each check validates against the current Claude Code 2.1.3 specification and flags anything that's misconfigured, insecure, or suboptimal.

### Configuration (`config-auditor`)
- `~/.claude/settings.json` — User settings
- `.claude/settings.json` — Project settings
- `CLAUDE.md` / `.claude/CLAUDE.md` — Project memory
- `CLAUDE.local.md` — Local overrides
- JSON validity and schema compliance
- Context usage optimization (file sizes, bloat detection)

### Hooks (`hooks-auditor`)
- All 12 event names validated (case-sensitive)
- Matcher patterns (regex validity, tool name accuracy)
- Command security (injection risks, data exfiltration, dangerous patterns)
- Timeout configurations
- `once: true` and `agent_type` options

### Permissions (`permissions-auditor`)
- Allow/deny rule effectiveness
- Pattern validation (catches common mistakes)
- Unreachable rule detection (2.1.3+)
- Conflicting rules and security recommendations

### MCP Servers (`mcp-auditor`)
- Server configurations in settings.json and .mcp.json
- Hardcoded secret detection
- Filesystem scope validation
- Tool permission coverage
- High-risk server identification

### Workflow Components (`workflow-auditor`)
- Custom slash commands (frontmatter, descriptions)
- Subagents (valid schemas, appropriate tools)
- Skills (trigger descriptions, file structure)
- Named sessions and `context: fork` usage

## Validation

We've tested this skill against our own QA process — the same rigorous checks the optimizer runs on your setup. Every claim has been verified against the official Claude Code documentation.

This skill has passed comprehensive validation:

```
✅ 38/38 checks passed

Installation
  ✅ Skill directory structure correct
  ✅ Agents installed to correct location
  ✅ Install script executes successfully

Schema Validation
  ✅ SKILL.md frontmatter valid
  ✅ All 6 agents have valid frontmatter
  ✅ All tool names correct (Bash, Read, Write, etc.)
  ✅ All model values valid (inherit)

Documentation
  ✅ All 12 hook events documented
  ✅ All 5 reference guides complete
  ✅ SKILL.md under 500 lines
  ✅ Descriptions under 1024 chars

Version Compatibility
  ✅ Targets Claude Code 2.1.3+
  ✅ Tested with Claude Code 2.1.3
```

## Requirements

The optimizer works with any standard Claude Code installation. No additional dependencies required.

- **Claude Code**: 2.1.3 or later
- **Subscription**: Claude Pro, Claude Max, or API access
- **OS**: macOS, Linux, or Windows (WSL)

## File Structure

Everything is plain Markdown — no build step, no compilation. You can read and modify any file directly if you want to customize the optimizer's behavior.

```
claude-code-optimizer/
├── SKILL.md                 # Main skill (triggers on audit/optimize requests)
├── MANIFEST.md              # Human-readable installation guide
├── HANDOFF.md               # Development context for contributors
├── QA-PROCESS.md            # Validation framework
├── README.md                # This file
├── LICENSE                  # MIT License
├── agents/
│   ├── audit-orchestrator.md    # Coordinates comprehensive audits
│   ├── config-auditor.md        # Configuration specialist
│   ├── hooks-auditor.md         # Hooks specialist
│   ├── mcp-auditor.md           # MCP server specialist
│   ├── permissions-auditor.md   # Permissions specialist
│   └── workflow-auditor.md      # Commands/agents/skills specialist
├── references/
│   ├── config-guide.md          # Configuration deep-dive
│   ├── hooks-guide.md           # Hook patterns and examples
│   ├── permissions-guide.md     # Permission strategies
│   ├── security-guide.md        # Security audit procedures
│   └── troubleshooting.md       # Common issues and solutions
└── scripts/
    └── install.sh               # Installation script
```

## Contributing

Found a bug? Have an idea for a new check? Contributions are welcome. The codebase is just Markdown files, so it's easy to understand and modify.

Please see [HANDOFF.md](HANDOFF.md) for development context and [QA-PROCESS.md](QA-PROCESS.md) for the validation framework.

### Development Workflow

1. Fork the repository
2. Make your changes
3. Run the QA process validation
4. Submit a pull request

### Areas for Contribution

- Additional audit checks
- New reference documentation
- Edge case handling
- Performance optimization
- Bug fixes

## License

MIT License — see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Attribution

<div align="center">

**Designed by Anthony Velte & Claude Opus 4.5**

Built with care to help developers get the most out of Claude Code.

---

*If this skill helped you, consider starring the repo ⭐*

</div>
